Here I have Google Chrome open to a
website and I've opened up the Dev tools.
Now when you're gonna run lighthouse it's
generally best to detached your dev tools.
And that's because we're gonna be taking a
metric about how well things are rendered
into the window.
If you have dev tools occupying
the bottom third of your screen or
the right half of your screen or whatever,
you've changed the size of the window.
And now you're measuring something
that isn't really realistic.
Not many real users run their
browsers in a window this big.
They render it in a normal screen size.
So my actual chrome window is
a normal size for a laptop user.
And I've detached the dev
tools somewhere else.
Now lighthouse is just a top level tab.
Usually it's last but
you can kind of drag these around to be
in whatever order you want them to be.
I tend to use lighthouse,
more so than many others.
There's some configuration
options available to us.
What lighthouse is going to do is
it's gonna generate a performance
report for us.
It's gonna tell us how well does this
page perform by all of the various
metrics that google cares about
in order to do that effectively
should really clear out
the storage of the browser.
It shouldn't like pull stuff from cache,
and so on.
It shouldn't rely on
cookies it should say it.
What would a first time
user experience be?
And so we want to leave clear
storage on simulated throttling.
We probably want to leave that on as well.
Chances are the devices that we use as
developers are probably a little bit
better.
A little bit faster than our average user.
And so we can simulate some
of what that user would see,
by turning this on, and it will
basically throttle your device in about
half it's gonna do a 1x turndown
of your current hardware.
Now lighthouse can do
a bunch of other things.
For the purpose of this course route.
We're only talking about performance, but
it can do a whole bunch
of other useful things.
If you'd like to see more of that,
there is a whole course here on
front end masters about those
chrome developer tools and
all the different things you can use for
it.
I encourage you to check that out.
The final option that we care about
here is what device we're gonna run on.
Now, the desktop we're going to run
it on the chrome web browser that we
have open right now.
If we want to run this on mobile,
it's gonna do the simulation, right?
It's going to create a screen size that's
only the size of a mobile device, and
it's going to run the report then.
So I'm gonna go ahead and run this report.
And it takes, 30 seconds or so to run,
it's gonna like reload chrome in
the background, and
it's gonna wipe out all the cookies and
it's gonna clear out the storage and
then it's gonna produce a report.
That looks like this, it gives you a top
level score, which they calculate out but
it also gives you all of these core web
vitals metrics that we talked about.
So in this case, it took 1.3 seconds to
show the first bit of data on this page,
which isn't so good.
And so it's red.
The largest contentful paint was after
that the largest contentful paint
will always be after the first and
it took 1.6 seconds.
And the community layout shift,
which isn't a time it's like a score.
It's like how much of a percentage
of the page has been shifted around.
The score's actually much more
complicated than that and
they show the calculations of how
they get to that on their website.
You can turn on these other option for
more details with links out to how they
calculate each of these scores, if
you're interested in the nuts and bolts.
There's a whole bunch of other things
interesting on here that we'll talk about
more in a minute.
But for now, you know enough
to run a performance report.
If you wanna run multiple performance
reports, this little plus up here in
the corner we'll just create
a new one that you can run.
You can visit any of the previous reports
that you've run within this instance
of chrome.
So you can try multiple things and
see how you got better.
There's some quirks that
we should know about.
The chrome lighthouse report
is relative to your machine.
So you're measuring performance
from your machine or
a throttled version of your machine.
So it's not necessarily gonna
reflect what the end user sees.
But something that the user that is
kind of similar to you would see
interacting with the pitch.
It's also showing the performance relative
to the current size of the chrome window.
So if the window is really small,
and in the background and
not at all relevant, well,
those scores aren't gonna be right.
They're gonna be like, hey,
how much does the layout shift
if my window is only this big?
Who cares nobody would
ever look at it like that.
A third kind of,
Interesting gotcha is that make sure
chrome stays in the foreground.
If you put chrome into a background
if you like, go off and
do other things while your
lighthouse is running.
Well, everything just kind
of gets throttle down and
sometimes crumble like stop executing
JavaScript because it's in the background.
And your lighthouse report will
be all weird and different.
So keep it in the foreground
while you're running it.
We already mentioned this sort, of course,
it's really good, I took a look at it.
You should totally check it out for a lot
more details into the Chrome Dev Tools and
all of the other tabs and how to use them.